Add new document: General Info (#68)
owncloud/docs-ocis: modules/ROOT/pages/deployment/general/general-info.adoc

= General Info

:toc: right

> :description: This document covers general aspects of oCIS like start modes, extensions, configuration ect. for a common understanding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: This document covers general aspects of oCIS like start modes, extensions, configuration etc. for a common understanding.
```

== Introduction

{description}

> The example commands shown need to be adopted depending if you are using the manual installation or a docker environment. See the xref:deployment/manual/manual-setup.adoc[Manual Setup] and the xref:deployment/docker/docker-setup.adoc[Docker Setup] for more details.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example commands shown need to be adjusted depending on whether you are using the manual installation or a docker environment. See the xref:deployment/manual/manual-setup.adoc[Manual Setup] and the xref:deployment/docker/docker-setup.adoc[Docker Setup] for more details.  
```

== Embedded Supervisor

> oCIS has an xref:architecture/index.adoc#ocis-microservice-runtime[embedded supervisor] for managing the runtime und reducing the memory footprint needed. In addition, this supervisor takes care that an extension will be restarted automatically in case it fails. When using an external supervisor like systemd, Kubernetes or others, this supervisor is not required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
oCIS has an xref:architecture/index.adoc#ocis-microservice-runtime[embedded supervisor] for managing the runtime und reducing the memory footprint. In addition, this supervisor takes care that an extension will be restarted automatically if it fails. When using an external supervisor like systemd, Kubernetes or others, the embedded supervisor is not needed.
```

== Deciding the Startup Mode

The following two mode types do not predefine a particular installation method like the manual or docker installation. When using Kubernetes as supervisor, the docker installation is mandatory.  

Starting oCIS using the embedded supervisor::
This mode can be used when scaling is not the primary focus and can be the case if you have a:
* small productive environment or 
* when you do testing and/or development

Starting oCIS in unsupervised mode::

> This mode is used when _availability, scaling and the adoption to dynamically changing requirements_ have a xref:availability_scaling/index.adoc#deployment-evolution[high priority]. In this case, an external supervisor like Kubernetes is used to deploy and run oCIS with its extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This mode is used when _availability, scaling and the adjustment to dynamically changing requirements_ have a xref:availability_scaling/index.adoc#deployment-evolution[high priority]. In this case, an external supervisor like Kubernetes is used to deploy and run oCIS with its extensions.
```

== Start oCIS With All Predefined Extensions

When you type `ocis server`, the embedded supervisor is automatically used and starts available predefined extensions automatically. The supervisor starts on port 9250 (by default) and listens for commands regarding the lifecycle of the supervised extensions.

> To list the started predefined extension type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To list the started predefined extensions, type:
```

[source,bash]
----
ocis list
----

This will print an output like:

[source,plaintext]
----
+------------------------+
|       EXTENSION        |
+------------------------+
| accounts               |
| glauth                 |
| graph                  |
| graph-explorer         |
| idp                    |
| ocs                    |
| onlyoffice             |
| proxy                  |
| settings               |
| storage-authbasic      |
| storage-authbearer     |
| storage-frontend       |
| storage-gateway        |
| storage-groupsprovider |
| storage-home           |
| storage-metadata       |
| storage-public-link    |
| storage-sharing        |
| storage-users          |
| storage-users-provider |
| store                  |
| thumbnails             |
| web                    |
| webdav                 |
+------------------------+
----

== Managing Extensions

=== List Available Extensions

Type `ocis --help` to get a list of available extensions.

=== Manage Instances of Extensions

==== oCIS Supervised Extensions

> You can start, list or kill available extensions in supervised mode with the `ocis` command. _These extensions can not be instantinated and share the same PID_. To manage supervised extensions, you need to have a running `ocis server` first or an error will be thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can start, list or kill available extensions in supervised mode with the `ocis` command. _These extensions share the same PID_. To manage supervised extensions, you need to run `ocis server` first or an error will be thrown.
```

> NOTE: When an extension runs supervised, is killed and started again, the only way to provide / overwrite configuration values will be through an *extension config file*. This is due to the parent process has already started, and it already has its own environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: When an extension runs supervised, is killed and started again, the only way to provide or overwrite configuration values will be through an *extension config file*. This is due to the parent process having already started in its own environment.
```

List running extensions::
[source,bash]
----
ocis list
----

Kill a running extension::
[source,bash]
----
ocis kill [extension name]
----

> Start a extension::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start an extension::
```

[source,bash]
----
ocis run [extension name]
----

> ==== Non Supervised Extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Unsupervised Extensions
```

> You can create at any time non oCIS supervised instances of an extension with `ocis [extension name]` like `ocis proxy`. _These extensions are independent of extensions in supervised mode and have their own PID_. The Instances are managed with classical OS methods or e.g. via Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At any time, you can create unsupervised instances of an extension with `ocis [extension name]`, for example `ocis proxy`. _These extensions are independent of extensions in supervised mode and have their own PID_. The Instances are managed with classical OS methods or e.g. via Kubernetes.
```

> Creating multiple instances of an extensions is used for scaling. Note that you may need configuration for and access to the instantinated extensions like with a load balancer when you scale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating multiple instances of an extension is used for scaling. Note that you may need configuration for and access to the extension instances like with a load balancer when you scale.
```

== Configuration of oCIS

// taken from: https://owncloud.dev/ocis/config/

oCIS uses a hierachical structure for its configuration, *where each element overwrites its precedent*. These are:

. Environment variables
. Extension configuration file
. oCIS configuration file

> The expected loading locations are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The expected locations are:
```

Reviewer: We need to keep an eye on this. Standard locations don't seem to be fixed yet.

. `$HOME/.ocis/config/`
. `/etc/ocis/`
. `.config/`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// check in beta 1 if this is accurate
```

> You can define a non standard configuration file location on startup either with an:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define a nonstandard configuration file location on startup either with an:
```

> * command option (`--config-file value`) or with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* command option (`--config-file value`) or with an
```

* environment variable (`OCIS_CONFIG_FILE`)

> NOTE: Administrators must be aware of these sources and the order applied (the _configuration file arithmetics_). Mis-managing them can be a source of confusion leading to undesired results on the final configuration created and applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Administrators must be aware of these sources and the order applied (the _configuration file arithmetics_). Mismanaging them can be a source of confusion leading to undesired results on the final configuration created and applied.
```

=== Configuration File Naming

> The configuration files for oCIS are YAML based (a human-friendly data serialization language).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration files for oCIS are YAML-based (a human-friendly data serialization language).
```

The filename to define a config has following namespace:

[source,plaintext]
----
ocis.yaml
 or
[extension name].yaml
----

You can list the possible extension names by typing:

[source,bash]
----
ocis list
----

=== Starting oCIS With Environment Variables

You can use environment variables to define or overwrite config parameters which will be used when starting oCIS like:

[source,bash]
----
PROXY_HTTP_ADDR=localhost:5555 ocis server
----

or when using multiple environment variables like:

[source,bash]
----
PROXY_HTTP_ADDR=localhost:5555 \
PROXY_DEBUG_ADDR=localhost:6666 \
ocis server
----

> Remember the note in xref:ocis_supervised_extensions[oCIS Supervised Extensions] when killing/restarting extensions in superviced mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember the note in xref:ocis_supervised_extensions[oCIS Supervised Extensions] when killing/restarting extensions in supervised mode.
```

=== Globally Shared Logging Values

> When running in supervised mode (`ocis server`), it is beneficial to have common values for logging so that the log output is correctly formatted or everything is piped to the same file without duplicating config keys and values all over the place. This is possible using the global log config key with following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running in supervised mode (`ocis server`), it is beneficial to have common values for logging so that the log output is correctly formatted or everything is piped to the same file without duplicating config keys and values all over the place. This is possible using the global log config key with the following example:
```

.ocis.yaml
[source,yaml]
----
log:
  level: error
  color: true
  pretty: true
  file: /var/tmp/ocis_output.log
----

> NOTE: In case of an extension overwriting its shared logging config that received from the main ocis.yaml file, you *MUST* specify all values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: In case of an extension overwriting its shared logging config received from the main ocis.yaml file, you *MUST* specify all values.
```

==== Log Config Keys

> This are the necessary log keys and the available values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are the necessary log keys and the available values:
```
